Hello everyone and welcome to the passwords lecture for jingle level 5 and this lecture.
Discuss that general set up to begin getting ready for user authentication on our Web site.
And we'll also talk about passwords in general and also discuss some additional library options for
extra security.
The first thing we need to take care of is setting up our ability to authenticate a user and to do this.
We do use some built in apps and make sure that they are under the installed apps list in settings that
high.
So you're setting up a file of your project member we have that installed apps variable which has a
list of the applications and we've added our own applications to that list.
But in order to do user authentication you need to make sure that these two applications are there jingled
that contrib authorization or a TH And then Jane that country the content types.
And often these are already preloaded in that list for you so you shouldn't need to add anything especially
for higher level of Gengel like in this course reason Gengel one point one zero at this time.
So those two should already be in there.
But if you do need to add them for any reason.
Make sure to migrate your database to actually add those applications OK.
The next thing you to do is make sure we store passwords safely.
And this should go without saying but again never store passwords as plaintext ever.
Never store passwords as plain text ever.
And I said that twice on purpose because you should never do that.
Basically if you're storing the passwords plaintext not only is it vulnerable if someone hacks your
database but it's also a little unethical.
And the fact that basically any Django admin could come in and see the passwords.
All right.
So we're going to do is begin by using the default P.B. KDAF to algorithm which uses an SHK 256 hash
that's already built into Django and this is already quite secure for most applications.
It really requires a massive amount of computing power to crack that hash.
But if you want more security you can upgrade to even more secure hashing algorithms and Gengel makes
it really easy.
So as I mentioned jingly makes that process super easy so we're going to show you how to use the secret
library and also the Argonne to library which I believe was the 2015 winner of some sort of open source
algorithmic hashing contest.
There's more information on the website about that.
But in order to use these two even more secure hashing algorithms in your virtual environment where
you're going to do is Pipp install secret and then Pippin's thought Django and then square brackets
Argan to inside of that and the pending on your jingle version you may already have these installed
so it may just say something like are going to already found etc..
Ok so I'll show you how to do that.
In case you want to super secure hashing algorithm and inside of settings that pilot we're going to
do is pass in the list the password hackers and you pass them in the order you want to try them.
So if for some reason you don't have library support maybe you uploaded your Web site onto a server
that's hosting and you forgot to install a B script.
Well don't worry it's not going to give an error it just will skip the script and then eventually fall
back to the original hashing algorithm that's built into Django and that sometimes users will also try
to use a very weak password such as the word password or password one two three.
You can also add in validator options to prevent a user from doing that and it will keep things simple
for now and only require a minimum length.
We can add in all sorts of validators like you must use a combination of numbers letters special characters
minimum lengths etc..
Now though we've covered conceptually what the processes for setting up a pass through Django that's
actually code through those steps to set up that password system and then in future lecture's what we're
going to do is add to this by setting up user models in our registration forms.
I'm going to hop over to the Adam text editor and I'm also going to show you a Web site to give you
an idea of what the hashing process actually looks like.
Let's get to it.
All right.
Before we actually get started with programming and Django our password application what I wanted to
show you is Brinkley talk a little bit more about what essay a hash looks like.
So here I am at a Web site that has this little hash calculator and if you type in some data here such
as the letter A.
You can calculate the hash and it returns back the actual hash that matches up with this particular
piece of data.
You notice that even if we change a tiny bit maybe a dots I will get pretty much a totally different
hash.
If you click it again it looks totally different.
And the idea is there's no discernible pattern here.
Even if you add in just a little bit of data s Ha again a stands for secure hash algorithm was actually
designed by the National Security Agency or the NSA and it falls more in their mathematics and actual
programming.
Essentially what it is it's a cryptographic hash function that can run on digital data.
And the way it works is you pass your data it passes through the algorithm it gets converted to a hash
and then you can use this hash to compare to other IMPA hash data.
So what the user is going to do is they will input their password and we will be saving the hash for
that.
So if someone goes to a database and happens to crack it open and they steal all our data well they
don't steal the user passwords.
They only steal the user hash.
And there's even more ways of securing this hash you can add things like salt to it.
So there's a lot of things you can do if a hash for instance a common practice is if you want to know
if a piece of data was tampered with at all you would have a known hash value of the original data and
then an expected hash value there.
You could check what you believed to be tampered.
Run it through the hash algorithm.
And if the hashes are any different than you know someone actually modified or tampered with that data.
And again other key aspects of cryptographic hash functions is collision resistance.
We want to make sure that no two pieces of data would come up with the same hash.
So that's also a key part of this methodical function in all of this falls a lot more under math than
computer science in general or programming it's really heavy on math.
Now definitely computer science and math overlap and huge amounts so don't get me wrong.
This definitely is a computer science topic but the actual way the hash works falls a lot more in their
mathematics.
So if you're interested in that definitely check out the Wikipedia pages.
They're super interesting topics but I just wanted to point that out that when we actually look at our
user data using Django admen we're going to see something that looks more like this.
And then even more so as far as security.
A lot of this will be sensor to Django adamant interface will just show a bunch of dots there.
So if you don't trust a jingle admin will they won't be able to get the hash back either.
And also the whole point is you can't come from this hash and get back the data at least not easily.
OK.
So let's hop over to the Adam text editor and start working on this.
All right.
So Adam what I'm going to do is start a new folder and there are jingle lectures and we'll call it Django.
Level five enter in I'm going to open up my terminal here and then I'm also going to remember to activate
my virtual environment.
In my case it was called My Django ENP enter and activate that virtual environment.
OK so now that my virtual environments activated lets CD into a jingle level 5 and then what I'm going
to do is call the Django Django bash adamant tool and say start project and we'll call this project
learning underscore users because let's face it we're going to be doing learning about users and user
authentication with Django and then we'll also start an application and we can call that application
basic app just like we've been doing for a few of these projects.
So let's go to Jingle Bash.
Actually let's see into that folder first CD to learning users.
Now call it Django dash Atman and say start app and then we'll call it basic underscore app enter in
that's sort of application.
Now if I expand this I see my learning users see my basic app etc. and what I want to do first is go
to settings that pie were actually going to be working at this a quite a bit.
For this particular section of the course a lot more than normal but we're going to scroll down here
pass all of this stuff and then here under installed apps this is where you want to check that you make
sure you have Django that contribute Addleman already there.
You also want to make sure that you have Django contrib Auth. for authorization are there and then Genger
that contrib content types.
If you're using Django 1.1 0 or above you should already have these just based off the start project
in the installed apps.
If for some reason you don't have them feel free to add the strings in there.
And what we also want to do is add in our basic applications all say basic app and then save it and
again whenever we add something to installed apps you want to make sure that you actually run Python
managed up high migrate it enter they'll make sure that those applications are registered to the entire
project and you should see how much stuff like this and that's applying all those changes.
And then we'll also want to say Python managed up-I make migrations to your app schulle application
in this case its basic app.
So we'll run that good if it doesn't.
The technique changes and then safe just say Python is up-I make or migrate and it should say no migration
to apply.
But I always do that just to say safe.
OK.
So those are the installed apps.
Make sure you have those there.
And as I mentioned we never want to store passwords in as plain text ever period.
So we're going to be doing is showing you how to actually passen the different algorithms for hashing
and in order to use some of the more advanced algorithms we actually need to install those libraries.
So these libraries are so popular that Django Cremer supports them almost out of the box and sometimes
that may even already be installed when you install Django depending on what distribution you're using.
But just to make sure we have them.
The first one is going to be the B script.
So say Pipp install B script so that's b c r y p t it will be crypt enter and then that should all be
crypt for you.
So I'm going to jump forward in time until that's finished installing OK that just finished for me overall
for my computer it took about 30 seconds so it wasn't that long or probably even less that maybe like
10 seconds and then the next minute on a stall is pipin stall and I will say Django.
And then in brackets you want to say are gone too close brackets enter and then it's also going to grab
them and you can see it actually I believe this one was already installed so it should say requirements
already satisfied.
So yes we already had a lot of these requirements satisfied so you may find that as well but there we
go.
OK so now we have those two ready to go.
Then the next step is inside of settings that pi we can pass in a list of the password hashes we want
to try.
So anywhere in the settings up PI file although I like to keep everything that has to do with passwords
down here we're going to do some stuff.
So I'm going to collapse this victory tree.
And there's actually usually a link here to more information about authorization passwords and validation
jingo documentation.
You heard Dana say it a million times.
It's fantastic.
So definitely check out those links.
But we're going to create a new variable called Password underscore Ascher's.
All caps and this or we actually pass them what we want to hash with and then we'll put in some brackets
here and then this is where we actually pass in a string of what all the password hashing looks like.
So the basic ones the default ones go like this or say jingo contrib.
A.
Th for authorization dot Hampshires dot.
And then the name of the actual password hasher algorithm and the built in ones are a P B K D F 2 and
then password hasher.
So that's whip's Asher.
So that's one of them.
And then the other one is with a higher level of bit.
And then you can pass in the argon ones as well.
Now this is a lot of strings to be typing so to save some time I'm actually going to just copy and paste
all of these from the notes.
So I would advise you to do the same.
Or you can definitely check this out.
If you take the link to documentation it actually has all of these as well written out for you as an
example already.
But basically what's going to happen is we're going to try with our most powerful hasher first the art
on to password hasher.
If for some reason we don't have an install on the server then we'll try with the secret password hasher
if for some reason the SSA 256 bit version of secret doesn't work.
Maybe you try just a normal script that still doesn't work.
They'll try the built in this one that's those and work done well.
Try this one as well.
So basically have all these layers of password hashing security so you fall back on.
OK so the next part is is password validator.
So if we scroll down here we already see we have a lot of password validators ready to use for us so
we can say user attributes similarity.
And basically what that does is you can't use your username inside your password.
So if your user name is Jose you can't use something like Jose's special password as your password.
Things like common password validators.
Those are checks for common passwords like one two three.
Pass the word password etc. numeric password validators to make sure has numbers minimum length etc.
and you can check the documentation for lists and examples of all the various types of password validators
you can manipulate or ask for if you want to super secure site and you don't really trust your users
to make good passwords.
Definitely use password validators a lot sometimes if you use too many password validators they can
be really annoying.
I'm sure you've been to one of those Web sites where you have to change her password every six months
and has to have some crazy combination of special characters numbers and letters.
That's totally fine if you want a super secure site but if you want your site to be at least a little
user friendly then don't go overboard on these password validators.
Really depends on where you want to balance yourself between user friendliness and security.
OK so let me show you an example of what this actually looks like.
We can see here that we have a list of what are essentially dictionaries where the name Rocchi relates
to the actual past revalidation that you're using.
So for example here we have name and then the past revalidation we're using here is minimum length.
So we end up doing is adding in other key to this dictionary.
And the key is options.
And then inside of that you nest in another dictionary of all the options that are available to you
for the minimum length evaluator and you can look at the documentation for the various options.
But one of the most common ones that minimum length.
The key here is one of the options is Min underscore length and then you just pasan a number as the
value of the minimum number of characters length.
So in this case let's say it needs to have at least nine characters to be a password so that we can
save that and there we have our password validators.
Again lots of options.
If you scroll up this original link right here it takes you to the past revalidation page where they
show you a bunch of options you can use so that's really all we need to do for now as far as setting
up our password hashing and getting past revalidation.
Later I'll show you how to deal with passwords as far as the actual models.
But what I want to do is just a little bit of setup for future lectures of the section of the course
is our template directory or extatic directory and something we haven't talked about yet.
The immediate directory.
So let's scroll back up here to where it says base directory and we're going to add in three directories
or three variables really template.
And that's going to be that path that join and we're going to join the base the rectory with templates.
We've done this before.
So save that and then scroll down and make sure where it says templates.
The I.R.S. also add in what you just made the template or save that.
And if I expand my tree I actually want to make sure they have the templates folder.
So under the top level learning users here and lines create a new folder and we call it templates enter.
And I'm also going to create two more folders what we've seen before when we haven't we've seen before
that we added a static folder knows to hold things like RC C Ss our javascript static files it don't
change images for your web site etc..
So we have static and templates and then another common folder you'll have here is called media and
the difference between the static folder and the media folder is you'll want to separate content that
static that you provided for your web site versus content that may be static like an image that the
user provided for the Web site.
So imagine that you're creating a user profile and they can upload a profile picture.
Well that picture should be saved under that media folder instead of under the static folder.
So static is stuff that belongs to you as the website creator administrator.
Media is going to be stuff that more or less belongs to the users.
So let's set that up as well.
So if we scroll back here to are based on history and our template there victory we're going to do a
very similar process for the static.
Underscore DJR that's going to be a path that join.
And here we're going to call again the base directory and joined out with static.
And then we'll do the same thing for media underscored the IRR and said equal to OS path.
That join a base directory media and if you're ever having any issues with settings as you're going
through this section of the course.
Definitely check out the actual notes where everything's already filled out for you and you can run
it and compare it to scroll all the way back to the bottom because there's a couple of more things to
add here as far as variables that jingoes going to be looking for we have the static or else that's
ready to go.
But we want to do is add in a static files directory.
So say static underscore wups static files underscore the IRS and then said equal to a list with just
a static directory.
And then we also want the basically the same thing for those media directories so say media underscore
root is equal to media underscore Diyar and then we'll also say media underscore your L is equal to
well say slash media slash just like we did for static.
OK.
Save that and we'll hit up the settings up high file one more time when we start talking about logons
because we need to set up a log in your all in the settings up-I file.
But for now we're ready to go.
So hopefully you learned how to select it for hashing algorithms for your passwords and set up in your
settings up by file.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture where we begin talking about users.